2016 NOC	Occupation Title	Copy for View Profile on SAO/Career Quiz tools
0011	Legislators	"Legislators participate in the activities of federal, provincial, territorial or local government legislative bodies or executive councils."
0012	Senior government managers and officials	"Workers in this group direct and evaluate, through middle managers, the major activities of municipal or regional governments or of provincial/territorial/federal departments, boards, agencies or commissions. They direct these organizations following legislation and policies made by elected representatives or legislative bodies."
0013	"Senior managers - financial, communications and other business services"	"Senior managers of financial, communications and other business services create and set the goals for the organization. Since they hold a leadership position in their organization, they also develop and approve policies and programs for their departments."
0014	"Senior managers - health, education, social and community services and membership organizations"	"Senior managers in this group plan, direct, control and evaluate membership and other organizations or institutions that deliver health, education, social or community services. This is done through middle management.  These workers create policies, either alone or in partnership with a board of directors, that establish the direction to be taken by these organizations."
0015	"Senior managers - trade, broadcasting and other services, n.e.c."	"Senior managers in this  group plan, organize, control, direct and run broadcasting, trade or other service companies through middle managers. They also create policies to manage the direction of these companies, either alone or working with a board of directors."
0016	"Senior managers - construction, transportation, production and utilities"	"Senior managers in this group organize, direct, control and judge the overall operations of goods production, utility, transportation and construction companies through middle managers. They also create policies to manage the direction of these companies, either alone or working with a board of directors."
0111	Financial managers	"Financial managers plan, manage and evaluate the operations of financial and accounting departments. They put in place the financial policies and systems for a company and make sure they run well. "
0112	Human resources managers	"Human resources managers direct, control and run the operations of human resources and personnel departments. They also develop and carry out policies and procedures regarding human resource planning, hiring, training and development and pay and benefit management."
0113	Purchasing managers	" Purchasing managers plan, organize, direct, control and check the activities of a purchasing department. They also create, design and carry out the purchasing policies of a business or institution. "
0114	Other administrative services managers	"Managers in this group plan, direct, evaluate, and organize departments responsible for corporate regulations and compliance, record keeping, security, admissions and other management services. They also organize finance, human resources, purchasing, administration or computer systems departments."
0121	"Insurance, real estate and financial brokerage managers"	"Insurance, real estate and financial brokerage managers negotiate, organize and direct the activities of companies or departments that provide insurance, mortgages, real estate or investment services."
0122	"Banking, credit and other investment managers"	"Banking, credit and other investment managers plan, control and evaluate financial activities. They oversee business development and manage performance to support their company’s strategic direction and policies. "
0124	"Advertising, marketing and public relations managers"	"Advertising, marketing and public relations managers plan, organize, direct, control and evaluate the activities of establishments and departments involved in commercial, industrial, and e-business advertising, marketing, and public relations."
0125	Other business services managers	"Business service managers plan, organize, direct, and evaluate the operations of establishments that provide services to business, and ensure the quality of those services and client satisfaction."
0131	Telecommunication carriers managers	"Telecommunication carriers managers plan, organize, direct, control and evaluate the operations of a telecommunications company, department or facility."
0132	Postal and courier services managers	"Postal and courier services managers plan, organize and direct the activities and operations in postal facilities and in establishments that provide courier services."
0211	Engineering managers	"Engineering Managers plan, organize and direct the activities of an engineering department, service or firm."
0212	Architecture and science managers	"Architecture and science managers plan, organize and direct the activities of an architecture, landscape architecture, scientific or statistical department, service or firm."
0213	Computer and information systems managers	Computer and information systems managers plan and oversee computer and information systems.
0311	Managers in health care	"Managers in health care plan, organize and direct the delivery of health care services, such as diagnosis, treatment, nursing and therapy, within health care establishments."
0411	Government managers - health and social policy development and program administration	"Government managers in this group plan, organize, direct, control and evaluate the development and administration of health care policies, social policies and  programs designed to protect and promote the health and welfare of individuals and communities."
0412	"Government managers - economic analysis, policy development and program administration"	"Government managers in this group plan, organize and direct policy, research and programs in government such as taxation, international trade, labour markets, transportation or agriculture. They plan and direct policies and programs to promote industrial and commercial business development in urban and rural areas."
0413	Government managers - education policy development and program administration	"Government managers in this group plan, organize and direct the development and administration of elementary, secondary and post-secondary education policies and programs."
0414	Other managers in public administration	"Workers in this group plan, organize and direct the creation of policies and programs that govern the daily operations of legislatures and other activities unique to government, such as intergovernmental affairs and elections."
0421	Administrators - post-secondary education and vocational training	"Administrators in this group manage the academic and related activities of college or university faculties. They manage registration activities and academic records systems of colleges or universities. They also manage the operations of vocational schools specializing in trades, technology, business or other vocational subjects."
0422	School principals and administrators of elementary and secondary education	"School principals and administrators of elementary and secondary education plan, organize and direct the academic affairs of a school system, as well as the activities of teachers and other staff."
0423	"Managers in social, community and correctional services"	"Managers in this group plan, organize and direct the programs and activities of social service and community agencies, correctional institutions, counselling departments, labour organizations, professional associations, political parties and non-governmental organizations."
0431	Commissioned police officers	"People in this occupation plan, organize and direct police force administration and police activities such as maintaining law and order and detecting and preventing crime. "
0432	Fire chiefs and senior firefighting officers	"Fire chiefs and senior firefighting officers plan, organize and direct firefighting operations and fire prevention activities in fire departments. They work for municipal and federal governments and for industrial establishments with firefighting services."
0433	Commissioned officers of the Canadian Forces	"Commissioned officers of the Canadian Forces plan, organize and command the activities of personnel in the Canadian Forces. It includes all ranks of commissioned officers in the Air Force, Army, and Navy."
0511	"Library, archive, museum and art gallery managers"	"Library, archive, museum and art gallery managers plan, organize and direct the activities of libraries, archives, museums, art galleries or departments within such institutions."
0512	"Managers - publishing, motion pictures, broadcasting and performing arts"	"Managers in this group plan, organize and direct operations within publishing firms, film, theatre and record production companies and broadcasting facilities."
0513	"Recreation, sports and fitness program and service directors"	"People in this group oversee recreational, sports and fitness programs. They plan, organize, direct and evaluate the operations of recreational, sports and fitness programs and services, national or provincial sports-governing agencies, professional athletic teams."
0601	Corporate sales managers	"Corporate sales managers plan, direct and evaluate sales activities. They oversee businesses or departments involved in commercial, industrial, institutional, e-business, wholesale and retail sales."
0621	Retail and wholesale trade managers	"Retail and wholesale trade managers plan, direct and evaluate the operations of businesses that sell goods or services at the retail or wholesale level."
0631	Restaurant and food service managers	"Restaurant and food service managers plan, organize and run restaurants, bars, cafeterias and other food and beverage businesses. Restaurant managers are usually responsible for the “front of house”, while chefs take care of the kitchen in the “back of house.”
"
0632	Accommodation service managers	"Accommodation service managers plan, organize, direct, control and evaluate the operations of an accommodation establishment or of a department within such an organization."
0651	"Managers in customer and personal services, n.e.c."	"Workers in this group manage establishments that provide services not classified elsewhere, such as dry cleaning, hairdressing or residential cleaning. This group includes managers of schools that provide non-work related instruction in driving, languages, music, dance, art, cooking or fashion."
0711	Construction managers	"Construction managers plan, organize, direct and evaluate the activities of a construction company or a construction department, under the direction of a general manager or other senior manager."
0712	Home building and renovation managers	"Home building and renovation managers own, operate and manage companies engaged in the construction of new residential homes and the renovation of existing homes."
0714	Facility operation and maintenance managers	"Facility operation and maintenance managers plan, organize and direct operational activities or maintenance departments."
0731	Managers in transportation	"Managers in transportation plan, organize and direct the operations of transportation companies such as railways, airlines, bus lines, municipal transit systems, shipping lines and trucking companies, under the direction of a general manager or other senior manager. They also plan, organize and direct companies or departments responsible for the transportation and movement of goods, under the direction of a general manager or other senior manager. "
0811	Managers in natural resources production and fishing	"Managers in natural resources production and fishing are responsible for planning, organizing and directing operations."
0821	Managers in agriculture	"Managers in agriculture plan, organize, direct control and evaluate the operations and functions of farms."
0822	Managers in horticulture	"Managers in horticulture plan, organize, direct and control the activities of nursery and greenhouse staff who grow and market trees, shrubs, flowers and plants."
0823	Managers in aquaculture	"Managers in aquaculture manage operations of facilities that cultivate and harvest fish, shellfish or marine plants to replenish wildlife stocks or for commercial sale."
0911	Manufacturing managers	"Manufacturing managers plan, organize, direct and evaluate the operations of a manufacturing plant or of a production department within a manufacturing plant, under the direction of a general manager or senior manager. "
0912	Utilities managers	"This group includes managers who plan, organize, direct and evaluate the operations of utility companies, utility services or heating oil distribution companies (i.e. managers in water supply, electrical power distribution, natural gas supply, petroleum product distribution, water pollution control and waste systems). They provide services such as water, electricity, natural gas or heating oil to residential, commercial and industrial consumers."
1111	Financial auditors and accountants	"Accountants and financial auditors organize, review and manage financial records and transactions for companies and people. They make sure that information is accurate and meets established accounting standards. This group includes articling students in accounting firms."
1112	Financial and investment analysts	"These analysts collect and analyze financial information in order to provide financial and investment or financing advice for their company or their company's clients. They cover areas such as takeover bids, private placements, mergers or acquisitions."
1113	"Securities agents, investment dealers and brokers"	"Securities agents, investment dealers and brokers buy and sell stocks, bonds, treasury bills, mutual funds and other securities for individual investors, pension fund managers, banks, trust companies, insurance firms and other establishments. They also buy and sell stocks, bonds, commodity futures, foreign currencies and other securities at stock exchanges on behalf of investment dealers."
1114	Other financial officers	"This group includes professional occupations in finance not elsewhere classified, such as financial planners, financial examiners and inspectors, financial investigators, financial underwriters, mortgage brokers and trust officers."
1121	Human resources professionals	"Human resources (HR) professionals develop and manage a range of activities for a company. This may include hiring and promoting employees; training and supporting workers; creating labour relations policies, programs and procedures; and laying off or firing people."
1122	Professional occupations in business management consulting	"Professional occupations in business management consulting provide services to management, such as analyzing the structure, operations, managerial methods or functions of an organization in order to propose, plan and implement improvements."
1123	"Professional occupations in advertising, marketing and public relations"	"People in this group have professional occupations in advertising, marketing and public relations are responsible for analyzing, developing and implementing communication and promotion strategies and information programs."
1211	"Supervisors, general office and administrative support workers"	Workers in this group supervise and co-ordinate the activities of general office workers and office equipment operators.
1212	"Supervisors, finance and insurance office workers"	"Workers in this group oversee and co-ordinate the activities of workers in the following occupations: Accounting and Related Clerks, Payroll Clerks, Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Clerks and Collectors."
1213	"Supervisors, library, correspondence and related information workers"	"Workers in this group oversee and co-ordinate the activities of workers in the following areas: Library Assistants and Clerks, Correspondence, Publication and Regulatory Clerks  and Survey Interviewers and Statistical Clerks."
1214	"Supervisors, mail and message distribution occupations"	"Supervisors of mail and message distribution oversee and co-ordinate the activities of workers in the following groups: Mail, Postal and Related Workers, Letter Carriers and Couriers, Messengers and Door-to-Door Distributors."
1215	"Supervisors, supply chain, tracking and scheduling co-ordination occupations"	"Workers in this group supervise and coordinate the activities of workers in the following occupations: Shippers and Receivers, Storekeepers and Partspersons, Production Logistics Co-ordinators, Purchasing and Inventory Control Workers, Dispatchers and Transportation Route and Crew Schedulers."
1221	Administrative officers	"Administrative officers review, oversee and carry out the office procedures involved in running a business or organization. This group includes administrative officers who are supervisors."
1222	Executive assistants	"Executive assistants co-ordinate administrative procedures, public relations activities, research and analysis for governments, corporations, private firms and associations."
1223	Human resources and recruitment officers	"Human resources and recruitment officers identify and advertise job vacancies, recruit appropriate candidates and help with the selection and reassignment of employees. Workers in this group are familiar with the business operations of their employer and provide support to assist in the success of the business."
1224	Property administrators	Property administrators manage rental and strata properties. They also act as the legal agents of property and strata property owners.
1225	Purchasing agents and officers	"Purchasing agents and officers buy the supplies and business services that their companies need to create their own goods and services. They assess the materials, equipment and service their organization needs and develop requirements for the units to be purchased."
1226	Conference and event planners	"Conference and event planners plan, organize and coordinate conferences, conventions, meetings, seminars, exhibitions, trade shows, festivals and other events."
1227	Court officers and justices of the peace	"Court officers and justices of peace coordinate the administrative and procedural functions of federal, provincial and territorial courts, such as scheduling trials and overseeing the maintenance of court records. They administer oaths, issue subpoenas, summonses and warrants and perform other court-related duties such as conducting bail hearings."
1228	"Employment insurance, immigration, border services and revenue officers"	"Employment insurance, immigration border service and revenue officers work for government agencies. This occupation includes government officers who carry out and enforce laws and regulations related to immigration, employment insurance, customs and tax revenue."
1241	Administrative assistants	Administrative assistants support managers and professional employers by performing a wide variety of administrative duties.
1242	Legal administrative assistants	"Legal administrative assistants perform secretarial and administrative duties in law offices, legal departments of large firms, real estate companies, land title offices, municipal, provincial and federal courts and government."
1243	Medical administrative assistants	"Medical administrative assistants perform a variety of secretarial and administrative duties in doctors' offices, hospitals, medical clinics and other medical settings."
1251	"Court reporters, medical transcriptionists and related occupations"	"Court reporters record and transcribe verbatim the proceedings of courts, legislative assemblies and committees, prepare transcripts for use by judges, tribunals and quasi-judicial panels. Medical transcriptionists record, transcribe and edit dictation by physicians and other health care providers, surgical proceedings, health-related reports and other medical documentation. "
1252	Health information management occupations	"People in this occupation collect, code, record, review and manage health information."
1253	Records management technicians	"Records management technicians operate and maintain systems for the collection, classification, retrieval and retention of records, images, documents and information. They work throughout the private and public sectors."
1254	Statistical officers and related research support occupations	"Workers in this group provide statistical and research support services to a wide range of businesses and organizations. They conduct statistical routines, monitor trends, compile data, prepare charts, graphs, summaries and reports in support of organizational information needs and research activities. "
1311	Accounting technicians and bookkeepers	"Accounting technicians and bookkeepers manage the way the day-to-day financial records of a business are kept. They may work with Chartered Professional Accounts (CPAs) and other accounting professionals or they may offer personal bookkeeping services.
"
1312	Insurance adjusters and claims examiners	Insurance adjusters and claims examiners investigate insurance claims and determine the amount of loss or damages covered by insurance policies. They also examine claims investigated by insurance adjusters and authorize payments.
1313	Insurance underwriters	"Insurance underwriters review and evaluate insurance applications to determine insurance risks, insurance premiums and extent of insurance coverage according to company policies."
1314	"Assessors, valuators and appraisers"	"Assessors, valuators and appraisers determine the value of land, businesses, estates and other real property, for purposes of sale, purchase, taxation or disposal of assets. They also determine the value of personal and household items."
1315	"Customs, ship and other brokers"	"Customs, ships and other brokers clear goods through customs and to their destination on behalf of importer and exporter clients. On behalf of clients, they buy and sell cargo space on ships. They also buy and sell ships, yachts and other watercraft. This  group includes brokers, not elsewhere classified, who negotiate commercial transactions or other services between parties on behalf of clients."
1411	General office support workers	"General office support workers perform clerical duties, including preparing correspondence, reports, statements and other material. They verify, record and process forms and documents. They also operate office equipment and answer telephones."
1414	Receptionists	"Receptionists work in hospitals, medical and dental centres, private businesses and public sector organizations. They greet visitors, answer phones, schedule appointments and perform other clerical duties."
1415	Personnel clerks	"Personnel clerks help personnel officers and human resources specialists by compiling, maintaining and processing information relating to staffing, recruitment, training, labour relations, performance evaluations and classifications."
1416	Court clerks	"Court clerks perform support functions in courts of law, such as calling court to order, preparing court dockets and maintaining exhibits."
1422	Data entry clerks	"Data entry clerks input coded, statistical, financial and other information into databases, spreadsheets or other templates using a keyboard, mouse, optical scanner, speech recognition software or other data entry tools."
1423	Desktop publishing operators and related occupations	Workers in this group use computers to enter text into a typesetting system and operate typesetting output equipment to produce text that is ready to print.
1431	Accounting and related clerks	"Accounting and related clerks calculate, prepare and process bills, invoices, accounts payable and receivable, budgets and other financial records according to established procedures."
1432	Payroll clerks	"Payroll clerks collect, verify and process payroll information and determine pay and benefit entitlements for employees within a department, company or other establishment."
1434	"Banking, insurance and other financial clerks"	"Banking, insurance and other financial clerks compile, process and maintain banking, insurance and other financial information."
1435	Collectors	"These workers collect payments on overdue accounts and bad cheques, and locate debtors to make collection arrangements."
1451	Library assistants and clerks	"Library assistants and clerks issue and receive library materials, sort and shelve books, provide general library information to users, and perform clerical duties."
1452	"Correspondence, publication and regulatory clerks"	"Workers in this group write correspondence, proofread material for accuracy, and compile material for publication. They verify, record and process forms and documents, such as applications, licences, permits, contracts, registrations and requisitions, and perform other related clerical duties."
1454	Survey interviewers and statistical clerks	"Survey interviewers and statistical clerks contact individuals to gather information for market research, public opinion or election and census polls. They code and compile interview and other data into reports, lists, catalogues and other documents.
"
1511	"Mail, postal and related workers"	"Mail, postal and related workers process and sort mail and parcels in post offices, mail processing plants and internal mail rooms. They may also serve customers and record transactions at sales counters and postal wickets."
1512	Letter carriers	"Letter carriers sort and deliver mail, record delivery of registered mail and collect money for cash-on-delivery parcels."
1513	"Couriers, messengers and door-to-door distributors"	"Couriers, messengers and door-to-door distributors pick up and deliver letters, parcels, packages, newspapers, flyers and other items within and between organizations."
1521	Shippers and receivers	"Shippers and receivers ship, receive and record the movement of parts, supplies, materials, equipment and stock to and from an establishment."
1522	Storekeepers and partspersons	"Storekeepers and partspersons sort, store and issue the parts and supplies used by the establishment they work in or for sale to the public."
1523	Production logistics co-ordinators	"Production logistics co-ordinators organize and assist the flow of work and materials within an establishment, prepare work and production schedules, and oversee the progress of production and construction projects."
1524	Purchasing and inventory control workers	"Purchasing and inventory control workers process purchasing transactions and maintain inventories of materials, equipment and stock."
1525	Dispatchers	Dispatchers use radios and other telecommunication equipment to dispatch emergency vehicles and to co-ordinate the activities of drivers and other personnel.
1526	Transportation route and crew schedulers	Transportation route and crew schedulers prepare operational and crew schedules for transportation equipment and personnel.
2111	Physicists and astronomers	"People in this group conduct research to gain knowledge of the natural world and universe. They develop new processes and devices in fields such as electronics, communications, power generation and distribution, aerodynamics, optics and lasers, and medicine and health."
2112	Chemists	"Chemists carry out research and analysis in support of industrial operations, product and process development, quality control, environmental control, medical diagnosis and treatment, biotechnology, and other applications. They also perform theoretical, experimental and applied research into basic chemical and biochemical processes to create new products and processes."
2113	Geoscientists and oceanographers	"People in this occupation do exploration and research to gain knowledge of the earth and ocean regarding its structure, composition, processes and phenomena."
2114	Meteorologists and climatologists	"Meteorologists and Climatologists analyze and forecast weather, provide consultation on atmospheric events and conduct research into the processes and occurrences of weather, climate and atmosphere."
2115	Other professional occupations in physical sciences	"Professions in this group include metallurgists, soil scientists and physical science and researchers which are not elsewhere classified and involve research in fields of physical science."
2121	Biologists and related scientists	"Biologists and related scientists carry out research to gain knowledge of living organisms, manage natural resources, and develop new practices and products related to medicine and agriculture."
2122	Forestry professionals	"Forestry professionals carry out research, develop plans and administer programs related to the management and harvesting of forest resources."
2123	"Agricultural representatives, consultants and specialists"	"Professionals in this group provide assistance and advice to farmers on all aspects of farm management, cultivation, fertilization, harvesting, soil erosion and composition, disease prevention, nutrition, crop rotation and marketing."
2131	Civil engineers	"Civil engineers plan, design, develop and manage projects for constructing or repairing building structures and systems. "
2132	Mechanical engineers	"Mechanical engineers research, design and develop machinery and systems for heating, ventilating and air conditioning, power generation, transportation, processing and manufacturing. They perform duties related to the evaluation, installation, operation and maintenance of mechanical systems."
2133	Electrical and electronics engineers	"Electrical and electronics engineers design, plan, research, review and test electrical and electronic equipment and systems."
2134	Chemical engineers	"Chemical engineers research, design, and develop chemical processes and equipment. They oversee the operation and maintenance of industrial chemical, plastics, pharmaceutical, resource, pulp, and food processing plants. They also perform duties related to chemical quality control, environmental protection and biochemical or biotechnical engineering."
2141	Industrial and manufacturing engineers	"Industrial and manufacturing engineers carry out studies, and develop and supervise programs to best use equipment, human resources, technology, materials and procedures to improve efficiency and productivity."
2142	Metallurgical and materials engineers	"People in this group carry out studies of the properties and characteristics of metals and other non-metallic materials. They plan, design and develop machinery and processes to concentrate, extract, refine and process metals, alloys and other materials such as ceramics, semiconductors and composite materials.
"
2143	Mining engineers	"Mining engineers plan, design, organize and oversee the development of mines, mine facilities, systems and equipment. They prepare and oversee the extraction of metallic or non-metallic minerals and ores from underground or surface mines."
2144	Geological engineers	"Geological engineers carry out geological and geotechnical studies to assess suitability of locations for civil engineering, mining and oil and gas projects. They plan, design, develop and oversee programs of geological data acquisition and analysis and prepare geological engineering reports and recommendations."
2145	Petroleum engineers	"Petroleum engineers carry out studies for the exploration, development and extraction of oil and gas deposits. They plan, design, develop and oversee projects for the drilling, completion, testing and reworking of oil and gas wells."
2146	Aerospace engineers	"Aerospace engineers research, design and develop aerospace vehicles, systems and components. They perform duties related to aerospace testing, evaluation, installation, operation and maintenance."
2147	Computer engineers (except software engineers and designers)	"People in this occupation research, design, plan, develop, test and modify computer and telecommunications hardware and related equipment, such as computer processors.
"
2148	"Other professional engineers, n.e.c."	"Other professional engineers include Agricultural and bio-resource engineers, Biomedical engineers, Engineering physicists and scientists, Marine and naval engineers, Textile engineers and other specialized engineers that are not classified elsewhere."
2151	Architects	"Architects conceive, plan and develop designs for the construction and renovation of commercial, institutional and residential buildings."
2152	Landscape architects	"Landscape architects conceive landscape designs, develop contract documents and oversee the construction of landscape development for commercial projects, office complexes, parks, golf courses and residential development."
2153	Urban and land use planners	"Urban and land use planners develop plans and recommend policies for managing land use, physical facilities and associated services for urban and rural areas and remote regions."
2154	Land surveyors	"Land surveyors plan, direct and carry out legal surveys to establish the location of real property boundaries, contours and other natural or human-made features. They also prepare and maintain cross-sectional drawings, official plans, records and documents pertaining to legal surveys."
2161	"Mathematicians, statisticians and actuaries"	"People in this group research mathematical or statistical theories, and develop and apply mathematical or statistical techniques for solving problems in fields such as science, engineering, business and social science. They apply mathematics, statistics, probability and risk theory to assess potential financial impacts of future events."
2171	Information systems analysts and consultants	"Information systems analysts and consultants work with software, hardware and wiring infrastructure. They plan, manage and review information systems, and help to improve a company’s computer networks, performance and security."
2172	Database analysts and data administrators	"Database analysts and data administrators design, develop and carry out data management solutions using database management software. They develop and put into use data administration policy, standards and models."
2173	Software engineers and designers	"Software engineers and designers research, design, test and maintain software applications, technical environments, operating systems, embedded software, information warehouses and telecommunications software."
2174	Computer programmers and interactive media developers	"Computer programmers and interactive media developers design computer programs and write, edit, integrate and test computer code. Computer code is a step-by-step set of detailed and logical instructions that tell a computer to perform a task. "
2175	Web designers and developers	"Web designers and developers plan, organize and produce digital content, create internet and intranet sites and/or applications for client websites. User experience (UX) designers, user interface (UI) designers, interaction designers, writers and content strategists, user researchers, and front-end developers are included in this group.  "
2211	Chemical technologists and technicians	"Chemical technologists and technicians provide technical support and services or they may work independently in chemical engineering, chemical and biochemical research and analysis, industrial chemistry, chemical quality control and environmental protection."
2212	Geological and mineral technologists and technicians	"Geological and mineral technologists and technicians provide technical support and services or they may work independently in the fields of oil and gas exploration and production, geophysics, petroleum engineering, geology, mining and mining engineering, mineralogy, extractive and physical metallurgy, metallurgical engineering and environmental protection."
2221	Biological technologists and technicians	"Biological technologists and technicians provide technical support and services to scientists, engineers and other professionals working in fields such as agriculture, resource management, environmental protection, plant and animal biology, microbiology, cell and molecular biology and health sciences.
"
2222	Agricultural and fish products inspectors	"These inspectors inspect agricultural and fish products for conformity to prescribed production, storage and transportation standards."
2223	Forestry technologists and technicians	"Forestry technologists and technicians may work independently or perform technical and supervisory functions in support of forestry research, forest management, forest harvesting, forest resource conservation and environmental protection."
2224	Conservation and fishery officers	"Conservation and fishery officers enforce the federal and provincial regulations for the protection of fish, wildlife and other natural resources. They also collect and relay information on resource management."
2225	Landscape and horticulture technicians and specialists	"Landscape and horticultural technicians and specialists survey and assess landscapes; draw sketches and build models of landscape designs; construct and maintain gardens, parks, golf courses and other landscaped environments; advise clients on issues related to horticulture; breed, cultivate and study plants and treat injured and diseased trees and plants."
2231	Civil engineering technologists and technicians	"Civil engineering technologists and technicians provide technical support and services to scientists, engineers and other professionals."
2232	Mechanical engineering technologists and technicians	Mechanical engineering technologists and technicians support a wide variety of processes in machinery and power transfer systems.
2233	Industrial engineering and manufacturing technologists and technicians	"Industrial engineering and manufacturing technologists and technicians provide technical support and services in the development of production methods, facilities and systems, and in the planning, estimating, measuring and scheduling of work."
2234	Construction estimators	"Construction estimators analyse costs and prepare estimates on civil engineering, architectural, structural, electrical and mechanical construction projects.    "
2241	Electrical and electronics engineering technologists and technicians	"Electrical and electronics engineering technologists and technicians provide technical support and services in the design, development, testing, production and operation of electrical and electronic equipment and systems."
2242	Electronic service technicians (household and business equipment)	"Electronic service technicians service and repair household and business electronic equipment, such as audio and video systems, computers and peripherals, office equipment and other consumer electronic equipment and assemblies."
2243	Industrial instrument technicians and mechanics	"Industrial instrument technicians and mechanics repair, maintain, calibrate, adjust, and install the dials, sensors and other instrumentation that measures and controls machinery in industrial and commercial plants.  "
2244	"Aircraft instrument, electrical and avionics mechanics, technicians and inspectors"	"People in this group install, adjust, repair, overhaul and maintain complex aircraft electrical systems and electrical flight controls, such as flight data recorders, radar, communications and navigation systems."
2251	Architectural technologists and technicians	"People in this group provide technical assistance to professional architects and civil design engineers in carrying out research, preparing drawings, architectural models, specifications and contracts, and in overseeing construction projects."
2252	Industrial designers	Industrial designers conceptualize and produce designs for manufactured products.
2253	Drafting technologists and technicians	"Drafting technologists and technicians prepare engineering designs, drawings and related technical information."
2254	Land survey technologists and technicians	"Land survey technologists and technicians carry out or participate in surveys to determine the exact locations and relative positions of natural features and other structures on the earth's surface, underground and underwater."
2255	Technical occupations in geomatics and meteorology	"People in this group gather, analyze, interpret and use geospatial information or meteorological data for applications in natural resources, geology, environmental research, land use planning and observing weather and atmospheric conditions."
2261	Non-destructive testers and inspection technicians	"Non-destructive testers and inspection technicians operate radiographic, ultrasonic, liquid penetrant, magnetic particle, eddy current and similar testing equipment to detect discontinuities in objects of various structures and materials."
2262	Engineering inspectors and regulatory officers	"People in this group inspect transportation vehicles, such as aircraft, watercraft, automobiles and trucks.  They also inspect weighing and measuring devices, such as scales and meters, as well as inspect industrial instruments, processes and equipment for conformity to government and industry standards and regulations."
2263	Inspectors in public and environmental health and occupational health and safety	"People in this group evaluate and monitor health and safety hazards and develop strategies to control risks in the workplace. They inspect restaurants, public facilities, industrial establishments, municipal water systems and other workplaces to ensure compliance with government regulations regarding sanitation, pollution control, the handling and storage of hazardous substances and workplace safety."
2264	Construction inspectors	"Construction inspectors inspect and examine buildings, bridges, highways and construction sites to ensure that specifications, building codes and safety regulations are observed."
2271	"Air pilots, flight engineers and flying instructors"	"Air pilots, flight engineers and flying instructors work for airline and air freight companies, flying schools and other public and private sector aircraft operators. Air pilots fly fixed wing aircraft and helicopters to provide air transportation and other services, such as crop spraying and aerial surveying. Flight engineers help air pilots monitor, troubleshoot and maintain aircraft systems, as well as with pre- and post-flight inspections. Flying instructors teach flying techniques and procedures to student and licensed pilots."
2272	Air traffic controllers and related occupations	People in this group direct air traffic within assigned airspace and control moving aircraft and service vehicles at airports. They authorize airline flights over assigned routes and provide pilots with flight information essential to aviation safety.
2273	"Deck officers, water transport"	Deck officers in water transport operate and command ships or self-propelled vessels to transport passengers and cargo on oceans and coastal and inland waters. This occupation includes Canadian Coast Guard deck officers.
2274	"Engineer officers, water transport"	"Engineer officers, water transport operate and maintain main engines, machinery and auxiliary equipment aboard ships and other self-propelled vessels. They supervise and coordinate the activities of engine room crews."
2275	Railway traffic controllers and marine traffic regulators	Railway traffic controllers coordinate passenger and freight train traffic. Marine traffic regulators monitor and regulate coastal and inland marine traffic within assigned waterways.
2281	Computer network technicians	"Computer network technicians operate, maintain and co-ordinate the use of local and wide area networks, datacentre networks, hardware, software and related computer equipment. They work for information technology (IT) companies and departments in the private and public sectors."
2282	User support technicians	"User support technicians provide technical support to computer users who are experiencing difficulties with computer hardware, computer applications or communications software."
2283	Information systems testing technicians	Information systems testing technicians put test plans in place to make sure that software applications and information and telecommunications systems work.
3011	Nursing co-ordinators and supervisors	"People in this group co-ordinate and supervise the activities of registered nurses, registered psychiatric nurses, licensed practical nurses and other nursing personnel in the provision of patient care."
3012	Registered nurses and registered psychiatric nurses	"Registered nurses (RNs) and registered psychiatric nurses (RPNs) provide nursing care to patients, clients and those in long-term care."
3111	Specialist physicians	"Specialist physicians are doctors with extra training and who treat patients in specific areas of health care, including clinical medicine, laboratory medicine and surgery."
3112	General practitioners and family physicians	"General practitioners and family physicians diagnose and treat illnesses and injuries. The terms “general practitioner”—or GP—and “family physician” are names for the same job with the same duties. Family physicians provide primary care, acting as a patient’s main health care contact and they work with the patient to manage their general health over the long term."
3113	Dentists	"Dentists diagnose, treat and prevent disorders of the mouth. They work in private practices or may work in hospitals, clinics, public health facilities or universities."
3114	Veterinarians	"Veterinarians prevent, diagnose and treat diseases and disorders in animals. They advise clients on the feeding, hygiene, housing and general care of animals as part of their duties."
3121	Optometrists	"Optometrists examine eyes, prescribe and fit eyeglasses and contact lenses. As part of their duties they recommend treatments, such as exercises to correct vision problems or eye disorders."
3122	Chiropractors	"Chiropractors diagnose, prevent and treat patients' neuromuscular-skeletal disorders of the spine and other body joints by adjusting the spinal column or through other corrective manipulation."
3124	Allied primary health practitioners	"Allied primary health practitioners include nurse practitioners, physician assistants and midwives. They provide primary health care and treatment in conjunction with physicians and in collaboration with other health professionals."
3125	Other professional occupations in health diagnosing and treating	"This group includes health professionals who diagnose and treat the diseases and injuries of patients and who are not elsewhere classified, such as Doctors of podiatric medicine, Chiropodists, Podiatrists, Naturopaths, Orthoptists, Osteopaths.
"
3131	Pharmacists	"Pharmacists include community and hospital pharmacists who compound and dispense medications, as well as industrial pharmacists who are involved in the research and development of medications."
3132	Dietitians and nutritionists	"Dietitians and nutritionists plan, implement and oversee nutrition and food service programs."
3141	Audiologists and speech-language pathologists	"People in this group diagnose, evaluate and treat individuals with peripheral and central hearing loss, tinnitus and balance problems, human communication disorders including speech, fluency, language, voice and swallowing disorders."
3142	Physiotherapists	"Physiotherapists plan and put treatment programs in place to maintain, improve or rebuild physical ability, ease pain and prevent physical problems for patients."
3143	Occupational therapists	"Occupational therapists help people whose capabilities have been impaired by illness, injury, developmental disorders, emotional or psychological disorders or the aging process."
3144	Other professional occupations in therapy and assessment	"This group includes specialized therapists not elsewhere classified who use techniques such as art, athletic, dance, music or recreational therapy or remedial gymnastics to aid in the treatment of mental and physical disabilities."
3211	Medical laboratory technologists	"Medical laboratory technologists conduct medical laboratory tests, experiments and analyses to assist in the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of disease. Medical laboratory technologists who are also supervisors are included in this group."
3212	Medical laboratory technicians and pathologists' assistants	"Medical laboratory technicians conduct routine medical laboratory tests, and set up, clean and maintain medical laboratory equipment. Pathologists' assistants assist at autopsies and examinations of surgical specimens, perform autopsies under a pathologist's supervision."
3213	Animal health technologists and veterinary technicians	Animal health technologists and veterinary technicians provide technical support to veterinarians by caring for animals and assisting in the diagnosis and treatment of animal health disorders. Animal health technologists and veterinary technicians who are supervisors are included in this group.
3214	"Respiratory therapists, clinical perfusionists and cardiopulmonary technologists"	"Respiratory therapists, clinical perfusionists and cardiopulmonary technologists who are supervisors or instructors are in this group. Respiratory therapists assist in the diagnosis, treatment and care of patients with respiratory and cardiopulmonary disorders.  Clinical perfusionists provide technical support to patients undergoing cardiac surgery and patients requiring cardio-respiratory support. Cardiopulmonary technologists assist physicians in the technical aspects of diagnosis and treatment of cardiovascular and pulmonary disease."
3215	Medical radiation technologists	This group includes technologists who operate radiographic and radiation therapy equipment to give radiation treatment and produce images of the body for the diagnosis and treatment of injury and disease. 
3216	Medical sonographers	"Medical sonographers operate ultrasound equipment to produce and record images of various parts of the body to aid physicians in monitoring pregnancies and in diagnosing cardiac, ophthalmic, vascular and other medical disorders. Medical sonographers who are supervisors or instructors are included in this group."
3217	"Cardiology technologists and electrophysiological diagnostic technologists, n.e.c."	"People in this occupation operate electrocardiogram and other electronic equipment to record cardiac activity of patients to help with the diagnosis and treatment of heart and other diseases, injuries and abnormalities."
3219	Other medical technologists and technicians (except dental health)	"This group includes medical technologists and technicians not elsewhere classified, such as dietary technicians, ocularists, prosthetists, orthotists, prosthetic technicians and orthotic technicians. "
3221	Denturists	"People in this occupation examine patients and design, construct and repair removable dentures."
3222	Dental hygienists and dental therapists	Dental hygienists and dental therapists work on treating and preventing diseases and disorders of the teeth and mouth.
3223	"Dental technologists, technicians and laboratory assistants"	"People in this occupational group design, prepare and fabricate dentures and dental devices as prescribed by dentists and other specialists, assist dental technologists and technicians in preparing and fabricating dentures and other dental devices.
"
3231	Opticians	"Opticians fit clients with prescription eyeglasses or contact lenses, help clients select eyeglass frames, arrange for the production of eyeglasses or contact lenses and mount lenses in eyeglass frames. Student opticians and opticians who are managers of optical retail outlets are included in this group."
3232	Practitioners of natural healing	"Practitioners of natural healing provide alternative forms of health care to promote, maintain and restore the holistic health of patients. They use traditional Chinese medicine techniques and other forms of treatment including acupuncture, herbology or reflexology."
3233	Licensed practical nurses	"Licensed practical nurses (LPNs) provide nursing care. They may work as part of a team, taking direction from doctors or registered nurses. They can also make certain nursing decisions on their own. This group includes operating room technicians, who are LPNs with additional training."
3234	Paramedical occupations	This  group includes workers who administer pre-hospital emergency medical care to patients with injuries or medical illnesses and transport them to hospitals or other medical facilities for further medical care. Paramedics who are supervisors are included in this group.
3236	Massage therapists	Massage therapists assess and treat soft tissues and joints of the body. Their work helps improve and maintain good health and treat pain from injuries and physical disorders. 
3237	Other technical occupations in therapy and assessment	"This occupational group includes workers, not classified elsewhere, who perform various technical therapy and assessment functions. They assist professionals, such as audiologists, ophthalmologists, speech-language pathologists and physiotherapists."
3411	Dental assistants	"Dental assistants help dentists, dental hygienists and dental therapists while patients are being examined and treated. They also do clerical work."
3413	"Nurse aides, orderlies and patient service associates"	"Nurse aides, orderlies and patient service associates are all types of health care assistants (HCAs). In B.C., HCAs who work in hospitals and facilities are known as care aides. They assist nurses, doctors, hospital and facility staff in the basic care of patients."
3414	Other assisting occupations in support of health services	"People in this occupation provide services and assistance to health-care professionals and other health-care staff.
"
4011	University professors and lecturers	University professors and lecturers teach courses to undergraduate and graduate students at universities. Professors may also carry out research. This group includes department heads.
4012	Post-secondary teaching and research assistants	"Post-secondary teaching and research assistants help university professors, community college and CEGEP teachers and other faculty members in teaching and research activities."
4021	College and other vocational instructors	"College and other vocational—or career-related—instructors teach applied arts and academic, technical and vocational subjects to students at community colleges, Quebec CEGEPs, technical and vocational institutes, language schools and other college-level schools."
4031	Secondary school teachers	"Secondary school teachers work with students from Grades 8 to 12. They teach academic, technical, career preparation and elective subjects. This group includes department heads."
4032	Elementary school and kindergarten teachers	"Elementary school and kindergarten teachers work with children from kindergarten to Grade 7. They teach in core areas such as reading, writing and arithmetic. They may also teach physical education, music and other subjects. Some specialize in second-language instruction."
4033	Educational counsellors	"Educational counsellors guide present and future students on educational issues. They offer career planning and personal development, coordinate counselling services for students, parents, teachers, faculty and staff."
4111	Judges	People in this occupation rule on civil and criminal cases. They deliver justice in courts of law and are in charge of federal and provincial courts.
4112	Lawyers and Quebec notaries	"Lawyers advise clients on legal matters in negotiations and mediations. They also draft legal documents and represent clients before courts of law, tribunals and administrative bodies."
4151	Psychologists	"Psychologists assess and diagnose behavioural, emotional and cognitive disorders, counsel clients, provide therapy and research and apply theory relating to behaviour and mental processes."
4152	Social workers	"Social workers provide counselling, therapy and other supportive social services. They help individuals, couples, families, groups, organizations and communities develop the skills and resources they need to function well in society. Social workers also refer clients to other social services. In addition, they respond to broader social issues such as unemployment, racism and poverty."
4153	"Family, marriage and other related counsellors"	"Family, marriage and other related counsellors help individuals, families and groups identify, understand and overcome their personal problems and reach their goals. Counsellors may specialize in areas including rehabilitation, addiction, marriage and family therapy, behavioural disorders or trauma."
4154	Professional occupations in religion	"Ministers of religion run religious services, give the rites of a religious faith or denomination and provide spiritual and moral guidance and perform other functions associated with the practice of a religion."
4155	Probation and parole officers and related occupations	"People in this occupation check on the conduct and behaviour of criminal offenders serving probation terms, observe them serving the remainder of sentences, and assess inmates and develop their rehabilitation programs."
4156	Employment counsellors	"Employment counsellors offer assistance, advice and information to worker clients on all aspects of employment search and career planning. They also provide advice and information to employer clients regarding human resource and employment issues."
4161	"Natural and applied science policy researchers, consultants and program officers"	"Natural and applied science policy researchers, consultants and program officers do research, prepare reports, give advice and manage programs in a variety of areas related to the natural and applied sciences."
4162	Economists and economic policy researchers and analysts	"Economists and economic policy researchers and analysts do research, follow data, analyze information and prepare reports and plans to solve economic and business problems. They develop models to analyze, explain and forecast economic behaviour and patterns and advise on finance, fiscal and monetary policy, international trade, agricultural and natural resource commodities and labour and industrial markets."
4163	Business development officers and marketing researchers and consultants	"People in this group do research, prepare policies and manage programs to encourage industrial and commercial business investment or tourism in urban and rural areas or to promote commercial or industrial products and services."
4164	"Social policy researchers, consultants and program officers"	"People in this group do research, develop policy and set up or manage programs in areas such as consumer affairs, employment, home economics, immigration, law enforcement, corrections, human rights, housing, labour, family services, foreign aid and international development.
"
4165	"Health policy researchers, consultants and program officers"	"Health policy researchers, consultants and program officers do research, produce reports and manage health-care policies and programs."
4166	"Education policy researchers, consultants and program officers"	"Education policy researchers, consultants and program officers conduct research, produce reports and administer elementary, secondary and post-secondary education policies and programs.
"
4167	"Recreation, sports and fitness policy researchers, consultants and program officers"	"People in this occupation oversee and manage recreation, sports and fitness programs and activities. They offer consultation, do research, and develop programs and policies related to recreation, sports and physical fitness."
4168	Program officers unique to government	"People in this group are mainly concerned with running government institutions, such as Parliament. They undertake activities unique to the operations of government, such as international relations, federal-provincial affairs, elections and tribunals."
4169	"Other professional occupations in social science, n.e.c."	"This group includes anthropologists, archaeologists, geographers, historians, linguists, political scientists, sociologists and other professional occupations in social science not elsewhere classified."
4211	Paralegal and related occupations	"Paralegal and related occupations include paralegals, independent paralegals, notaries public and trademark agents. People in this group prepare legal documents and conduct research to assist lawyers or other professionals, provide legal services to the public as allowed by government legislation, administer oaths, take affidavits, sign legal documents, and advise clients on intellectual property matters."
4212	Social and community service workers	Social and community service workers set up and manage a variety of social assistance programs and community services.
4214	Early childhood educators and assistants	"Early childhood educators (ECEs) work with young children from birth to age five. They create and run educational programs that fuel children’s intellectual, physical, social and emotional growth. Early childhood educator assistants (ECEAs) work under the supervision of ECEs."
4215	Instructors of persons with disabilities	"People in this occupation teach children and adults with physical and developmental disabilities communication techniques, such as Braille or sign language. They also teach rehabilitation skills to increase independence and social skills.
"
4216	Other instructors	"Instructors in this group teach courses, such as motor vehicle or motorcycle driving, sailing and navigation, sewing or other courses, that are outside of educational institutions and not job-related."
4217	Other religious occupations	"This occupational group includes brothers, nuns, monks, religious education workers and others who provide support to ministers of religion or to a religious community who perform certain functions associated with the practice of a religion."
4311	Police officers (except commissioned)	"Police officers protect the public’s safety, make sure that federal, provincial and municipal laws are followed, and prevent and investigate crime. This career group includes military police and railway police."
4312	Firefighters	"Firefighters carry out firefighting and fire prevention activities and help with other emergencies, such as hazardous goods spills and motor vehicle accidents."
4313	Non-commissioned ranks of the Canadian Forces	"This group consists of Canadian Forces personnel who are non-commissioned officers (NCOs) or members of other non-commissioned ranks. They provide collective defence measures to protect Canadian waters, land, airspace and other interests.
"
4411	Home child care providers	"Home child care providers look after the well-being, and physical and social development of children. In B.C., these workers are known as licence-not-required (LNR) child care providers. They may work with children on an ongoing or a short-term basis. Nannies are included in this group. Foster caregivers, often called foster parents, are also included, although their role differs in some ways."
4412	"Home support workers, housekeepers and related occupations"	"In B.C., home support workers are known as community health workers. They are health care assistants (HCAs) that work in people’s homes. There, they provide personal care for seniors, people with disabilities and people recovering from illness or accident. Housekeepers clean, maintain and manage private homes and other residences."
4413	Elementary and secondary school teacher assistants	"People in this group assist in areas of personal care, teaching and behaviour management under the supervision of teachers or other child care professionals. They also assist teachers and counsellors with teaching and non-instructional tasks, support students."
4421	Sheriffs and bailiffs	"Sheriffs execute and enforce court orders, warrants and writs, participate in the seizure and sale of property and perform other related courtroom duties. Bailiffs serve legal orders and documents, seize or repossess properties, evict tenants and perform other related activities.
"
4422	Correctional service officers	People in this occupation guard offenders and detainees and maintain order in correctional facilities and other places of detention.
4423	"By-law enforcement and other regulatory officers, n.e.c."	Bylaw enforcement and other regulatory officers enforce bylaws and regulations of provincial and municipal governments.
5111	Librarians	"Librarians select, develop, organize and maintain library collections and provide programs, instructions and advisory services for users."
5112	Conservators and curators	"People in the group restore and conserve artifacts belonging to museums, galleries and owners of cultural property. They recommend the acquisition of museum and gallery artifacts, research the artistic history of artifacts."
5113	Archivists	"Archivists manage, process, store and disseminate information contained in an organization's archives. "
5121	Authors and writers	"Authors and writers plan, research and write books, scripts, storyboards, plays, essays, speeches, manuals, specifications and other non-journalistic articles for publication or presentation."
5122	Editors	"Editors review, evaluate and edit manuscripts, articles, news reports and other material for publication, broadcast or interactive media and co-ordinate the activities of writers, journalists and other staff."
5123	Journalists	"Journalists research, investigate, interpret and communicate news and public affairs through newspapers, television, radio and other media."
5125	"Translators, terminologists and interpreters"	"People in this group translate written material and oral communication from one language to another. They also perform research to list terms connected with a certain field, define them and find equivalents in another language. In addition, they use sign language to translate spoken language."
5131	"Producers, directors, choreographers and related occupations"	"Producers, directors, choreographers and related occupations oversee and control the technical and artistic aspects of film, television, radio, dance and theatre productions."
5132	"Conductors, composers and arrangers"	"This group includes those who conduct bands and orchestras, compose musical works and arrange instrumental and vocal compositions."
5133	Musicians and singers	"People in this group perform with orchestras, choirs, opera companies and popular bands in establishments such as concert halls, lounges and theatres and in film, television and recording studios. They also teach vocal and instrumental music."
5134	Dancers	"This group includes dancers and dance teachers.  Dancers work for ballet and dance companies, television and film productions, and other establishments. Dance teachers work for dance academies and dance schools.
"
5135	Actors and comedians	"Actors and comedians perform roles in motion picture, television, theatre and radio productions to entertain a variety of audiences. This group includes acting teachers employed by private acting schools."
5136	"Painters, sculptors and other visual artists"	"Painters, sculptors and other visual artists create original paintings, drawings, sculptures, engravings and other artistic works. This group also includes art instructors and teachers."
5211	Library and public archive technicians	"Library and archive technicians and assistants help users to access library and archive resources, do records management, processing and storage, assist in describing new acquisitions, do archive processing and storage and provide general support for client information needs. Library technicians and archive technicians are two distinct occupations."
5212	Technical occupations related to museums and art galleries	"People in this occupation classify and catalogue museum and gallery artifacts, and construct and install exhibits and displays. They restore, maintain and store museum and gallery collections. They also frame artwork."
5221	Photographers	"Photographers operate still cameras to photograph people, events, scenes, materials, products and other subjects. Photographers are employed by photographic studios, newspapers, magazines, museums and government, or they may be self-employed."
5222	Film and video camera operators	"Film and video camera operators operate motion picture and video cameras and related equipment to record news, live events, films, videos and television broadcasts."
5223	Graphic arts technicians	"Graphic arts technicians help conceptualize projects, interpret design specifications or sketches, prepare page mock-ups, layouts and lettering, and prepare production materials for press, electronic or multimedia publishing."
5224	Broadcast technicians	"Broadcast technicians install, set up, test, operate and repair electronic equipment used to record and transmit live and taped radio and television programs and to produce audio and video streaming broadcasts for the internet."
5225	Audio and video recording technicians	"Audio and video recording technicians operate equipment to record, mix and edit sound, music and videotape for motion pictures, television and radio programs, videos, recordings and live events."
5226	"Other technical and co-ordinating occupations in motion pictures, broadcasting and the performing arts"	"This occupational group includes a range of technical, coordinating and supervisory workers who coordinate and perform specific activities for television, radio and motion picture productions, news broadcasts, theatre and stage productions, and other live or recorded productions."
5227	"Support occupations in motion pictures, broadcasting, photography and the performing arts"	"People in this occupation play a support role in the production of motion pictures, broadcasting, photography and the performing arts."
5231	Announcers and other broadcasters	"Announcers and other broadcasters read news, sports, weather, commercial and public service messages. They host entertainment and information programs for broadcast on radio or television."
5232	"Other performers, n.e.c."	"This group includes circus performers, magicians, models, puppeteers and other performers.
"
5241	Graphic designers and illustrators	Graphic designers and illustrators conceptualize and create graphic art and visual materials and images to communicate information.  Graphic designers focus on graphic art and visual materials and Illustrators focus on the creation of illustrations to represent information through images.
5242	Interior designers and interior decorators	"Interior designers come up with ideas and produce artistic, practical and safe designs for interior spaces in residential, commercial, cultural, institutional and industrial buildings."
5243	"Theatre, fashion, exhibit and other creative designers"	"Theatre, fashion, exhibit and other creative designers conceptualize and produce designs for film, television, theatre and video productions, garments and textiles, displays and exhibits, and other creative items such as jewellery and trophies."
5244	Artisans and craftspersons	"People in this occupation create a variety of items such as pottery, stained, blown glass, jewellery, rugs, blankets, other handicrafts, ornamental objects, and artistic floral arrangements. "
5245	"Patternmakers - textile, leather and fur products"	"Patternmakers in this  group create master patterns for the production of garments, footwear and other textile, leather or fur products."
5251	Athletes	"Athletes play sports and participate in competitive sports events on an amateur or professional basis.
"
5252	Coaches	"Coaches prepare and train individual athletes or teams for competitive events. This group also includes sports scouts who identify and recruit athletes for professional sports teams.
"
5253	Sports officials and referees	"Sports officials and referees make sure rules and regulations governing sporting events, athletic games and sports competitions are followed."
5254	"Program leaders and instructors in recreation, sport and fitness"	"Program leaders and instructors in recreation, sport and fitness lead and instruct groups and individuals in related programs.    "
6211	Retail sales supervisors	"Retail sales supervisors work in stores, shops and other retail outlets. They may work for businesses that offer rentals for home renovation or landscaping, automotive parts outlets and car and truck rental companies.   "
6221	Technical sales specialists - wholesale trade	"People in this group sell a range of technical goods and services, such as scientific, agricultural and industrial products, electricity, telecommunications services and computer services, to governments and to commercial and industrial establishments in domestic and international locations."
6222	Retail and wholesale buyers	People in this occupation buy merchandise for resale by retail and wholesale establishments. They are usually responsible for the merchandising operations of retail and wholesale establishments.
6231	Insurance agents and brokers	"Insurance agents and brokers sell life, automobile, property, travel, accident and sickness, and other types of insurance to individuals, businesses and public institutions."
6232	Real estate agents and salespersons	"Real estate agents and salespersons help people buy or sell houses, apartments, commercial buildings and other real estate. They may work in a specific area of real estate such as residential, commercial, industrial/institutional, recreational or rural."
6235	Financial sales representatives	"Financial sales representatives sell basic deposit, investment and loan products and services to individuals and businesses."
6311	Food service supervisors	"People in the group supervise, direct and coordinate the activities of workers who prepare, portion and serve food."
6312	Executive housekeepers	"Executive housekeepers direct and control the operations of housekeeping departments within hotels, hospitals and other establishments."
6313	"Accommodation, travel, tourism and related services supervisors"	"People in this group supervise and coordinate the activities of hotel accommodation service clerks, theatre ushers and attendants, reservation clerks, sports and recreation club workers, commissionaires, security guards and other service workers."
6314	Customer and information services supervisors	People in this occupation oversee and co-ordinate the activities of workers in the following groups: Customer Service Representatives - Financial Institutions (NOC 6551) and Other Customer Information Services Representatives (NOC 6552).
6315	Cleaning supervisors	"Cleaning supervisors oversee and coordinate the activities of workers in the following unit groups: Light Duty Cleaners (NOC 6731), Specialized Cleaners (NOC 6732), Janitors, Caretakers and Building Superintendents (NOC 6733)."
6316	Other services supervisors	"Supervisors in this group supervise and co-ordinate the activities of: dry cleaning, laundry, ironing, pressing and finishing workers; theatre ushers and attendants; sports and recreation club workers; commissionaires; security guards and other service workers."
6321	Chefs	Chefs plan and direct food preparation and cooking activities and prepare and cook meals and specialty foods.
6322	Cooks	"Cooks prepare, cook and present meals and specialty foods."
6331	"Butchers, meat cutters and fishmongers - retail and wholesale"	"Butchers, meat cutters and fishmongers in retail and wholesale prepare standard cuts of meat, poultry, fish and shellfish for sale in various food establishments."
6332	Bakers	"Bakers make bread, rolls, muffins, pies, pastries, cakes and cookies in retail and wholesale bakeries and dining establishments."
6341	Hairstylists and barbers	Hairstylists and barbers cut and style hair and perform related services.
6342	"Tailors, dressmakers, furriers and milliners"	"Tailors, dressmakers and furriers make, alter and repair tailored clothing, dresses, coats and other made-to-measure garments. Milliners make, alter and repair hats. This group also includes alterations, who fit, alter and repair garments."
6343	Shoe repairers and shoemakers	Shoe repairers repair footwear and shoemakers make specialized and custom shoes and boots.
6344	"Jewellers, jewellery and watch repairers and related occupations"	"Jewellers and related workers make, assemble, repair and appraise fine jewellery. Watch repairers and related workers repair, clean, adjust and make parts for clocks and watches."
6345	Upholsterers	"Upholsterers cover furniture, fixtures and similar items with fabric, leather or other upholstery materials."
6346	Funeral directors and embalmers	Funeral directors coordinate and arrange all aspects of funeral services. Embalmers prepare the remains of deceased persons for public visitation and burial.
6411	Sales and account representatives - wholesale trade (non-technical)	"People in this occupation sell non-technical goods and services to retail, wholesale, commercial, industrial, professional and other clients domestically and internationally."
6421	Retail salespersons	"Retail salespersons sell, rent or lease goods and services directly to consumers."
6511	Maîtres d'hôtel and hosts/hostesses	Maîtres d'hôtel and hosts/hostesses greet patrons and escort them to tables. They supervise and coordinate the activities of food and beverage servers.
6512	Bartenders	"People in this occupation mix and serve alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages. This group includes supervisors of bartenders.
"
6513	Food and beverage servers	"Food and beverage servers work in restaurants, hotels, bars, pubs, private clubs and banquet halls. They take food and drink orders and serve them to customers. They may also seat customers and assist with takeout orders."
6521	Travel counsellors	"Travel counsellors give clients information about travel options and tour packages, make bookings and reservations, prepare tickets and receive payment."
6522	Pursers and flight attendants	People in this occupation make sure passengers and crew members are comfortable and safe during flights and aboard ships.
6523	Airline ticket and service agents	"People in this occupation issue tickets and provide fare quotations, make reservations and do passenger check-in, trace missing baggage, arrange for cargo shipments and perform other related customer service duties to help airline passengers."
6524	"Ground and water transport ticket agents, cargo service representatives and related clerks"	"Ticket agents, cargo service representatives and related clerks (except airline) quote fares and rates, make reservations, issue tickets, process cargo shipment, check baggage, perform other related customer service duties to assist travellers."
6525	Hotel front desk clerks	"Hotel front desk clerks make room reservations, provide information and services to guests and receive payments. They are the ""frontline"" for hotels, as they greet customers and assign rooms."
6531	Tour and travel guides	"Tour and travel guides, also known as tour directors or step-on tour guides, escort people on trips or give tours of locations of interest.
"
6532	Outdoor sport and recreational guides	"Outdoor sport and recreational guides organize and conduct trips or expeditions for sports enthusiasts, adventurers, tourists and resort guests."
6533	Casino occupations	"Gambling casino workers operate gaming tables, maintain slot machines, accept keno wagers, pay out winning bets and jackpots, collect losing bets."
6541	Security guards and related security service occupations	"This group includes security guards and other related workers who protect property against theft and vandalism, control access to establishments, maintain order, and enforce regulations at public events and within establishments. They conduct private investigations for clients or employers and provide other protective services not elsewhere classified."
6551	Customer services representatives - financial institutions	"Customer service representatives in financial institutions handle customers’ financial transactions, including cashing cheques, completing money transfers and opening and closing accounts."
6552	Other customer and information services representatives	"Customer and information services representatives answer enquiries and provide information about an establishment's goods, services and policies.
"
6561	"Image, social and other personal consultants"	"Image, social and other personal consultants give advice to clients on their personal appearance, speaking style, manner or other behaviours in order to improve personal or business images."
6562	"Estheticians, electrologists and related occupations"	Workers in this group give facial and body treatments to improve an individual's physical appearance.
6563	Pet groomers and animal care workers	"Animal care workers feed, handle, train and groom animals and assist veterinarians, animal health technologists and technicians and animal breeders. Pet groomers clip coats, bathe and otherwise groom pets."
6564	Other personal service occupations	"This group includes occupations, not elsewhere classified, that provide psychic consulting, fortune telling, astrological services and other personal services."
6611	Cashiers	"Cashiers run cash registers, optical price scanners, computers or other equipment to record and accept payment for goods, services and admissions.
"
6621	Service station attendants	"Service station attendants sell fuel and other automotive products, offer services such as fuelling, cleaning, lubricating and do minor repairs to motor vehicles. They also rent boats and related equipment, and maintain marina facilities."
6622	"Store shelf stockers, clerks and order fillers"	"Grocery clerks and store shelf stockers pack customers' purchases, price items, stock shelves with merchandise and fill mail and telephone orders."
6623	Other sales related occupations	"Workers in this group sell goods or services during home demonstrations or by telephone soliciting, retail exhibitions or street vending."
6711	"Food counter attendants, kitchen helpers and related support occupations"	"Workers in this group take customer orders, accept payment and serve customers at food counters. They may also prepare, heat and finish cooking simple food items, clear tables, clean kitchen areas and wash dishes, or help workers who prepare or serve food and beverages."
6721	"Support occupations in accommodation, travel and facilities set-up services"	"Workers in this group carry hotel guests' luggage and escort guests to their rooms. They carry travellers' luggage at airports, in railway stations and aboard ships. They clean and maintain public areas and passengers' rooms aboard ships and trains. They also set up rooms and associated furnishings, commercial displays, exhibits, equipment and booths in facilities and establishments."
6722	"Operators and attendants in amusement, recreation and sport"	"People in this group work as operators and attendants in amusement, recreation and sports facilities to assist patrons, collect tickets and fees. They supervise the use of recreational and sports equipment."
6731	Light duty cleaners	"People in this occupation clean the lobbies, hallways, offices and rooms of hotels, motels, resorts, hospitals, schools, office and other buildings and private residences."
6732	Specialized cleaners	"Specialized cleaners clean and refurbish building exteriors, carpets, chimneys, industrial equipment, ventilation systems, windows and other surfaces, using specialized equipment and techniques."
6733	"Janitors, caretakers and building superintendents"	"Janitors, caretakers and building superintendents are usually responsible for cleaning and maintaining commercial, institutional or residential buildings."
6741	"Dry cleaning, laundry and related occupations"	"People in this group operate machines to dry clean or launder garments and other articles, check finished garments and articles to make sure they meet required standards for dry cleaning, laundering and pressing. They assemble, iron and bag finished garments and other articles."
6742	"Other service support occupations, n.e.c."	"This  group includes other support occupations, not elsewhere classified, primarily concerned with the provision of services. Those in occupations in this group are employed by a wide range of establishments, and may be self-employed."
7201	"Contractors and supervisors, machining, metal forming, shaping and erecting trades and related occupations"	"This group includes sheet metal, ironwork, welding and boilermaking trade contractors who own and operate their own businesses. This group also includes supervisors who supervise and coordinate the activities of workers classified in the following groups: Sheet Metal Workers (NOC 7233), Boilermakers (NOC 7234), Structural Metal and Platework Fabricators and Fitters (NOC 7235), Ironworkers (NOC 7236), Welders and Related Machine Operators (NOC 7237), Machining Tool Operators (9417), Machinists and Machining and Tooling Inspectors (7231), Tool and Die Makers (7232)."
7202	"Contractors and supervisors, electrical trades and telecommunications occupations"	"Electrical trades and telecommunications contractors own and operate their own telecommunications or electrical trade businesses. Electrical trades and telecommunications contractors supervise and coordinate the activities of workers in the following groups: Electricians (NOC 7241), Industrial Electricians (NOC 7242), Power System Electricians (NOC 7243), Electrical Power Line and Cable Workers (NOC 7244), Telecommunications Line and Cable Workers (NOC 7245), Telecommunications Installation and Repair Workers (NOC 7246), Cable Television Service and Maintenance Technicians (NOC 7247)."
7203	"Contractors and supervisors, pipefitting trades"	"This group includes plumbing and other pipefitting trade contractors who own and operate their own businesses. It also includes supervisors who supervise and coordinate the activities of workers in the following groups: Plumbers (NOC 7251), Steamfitters, Pipefitters and Sprinkler System Installers (NOC 7252), Gas Fitters (NOC 7253)."
7204	"Contractors and supervisors, carpentry trades"	"This group includes carpentry and cabinetmaking trade contractors who own and operate their own businesses. It also includes supervisors who supervise and coordinate the activities of workers classified in the following groups: Carpenters (NOC 7271), Cabinetmakers (NOC 7272).
"
7205	"Contractors and supervisors, other construction trades, installers, repairers and servicers"	"This group includes roofing, masonry, painting and other construction trade contractors, not classified elsewhere, who own and operate their own business. Supervisors in this group supervise and coordinate the activities of various tradespersons, installers, repairers and servicers in the following groups: Masonry and plastering trades, Other construction trades, Other installers, repairers and servicers."
7231	Machinists and machining and tooling inspectors	"Machinists set up and operate a variety of machine tools to cut or grind metal, plastic or other materials to make or modify parts or products with precise dimensions."
7232	Tool and die makers	"People in this group make, repair and modify custom-made, prototype or special tools, dies, jigs, fixtures and gauges using various metals, alloys and plastics which require precise dimensions."
7233	Sheet metal workers	"Sheet metal workers fabricate, assemble, install and repair sheet metal products.
"
7234	Boilermakers	"People in this occupation make, assemble, put up, test, maintain and repair boilers, vessels, tanks, towers, heat exchangers and other heavy-metal structures."
7235	Structural metal and platework fabricators and fitters	"Structural metal and platework fabricators and fitters fabricate, assemble, fit and install steel or other metal components for buildings, bridges, tanks, towers, boilers, pressure vessels and other similar structures and products."
7236	Ironworkers	"Ironworkers are involved in the ironwork portion of the construction of buildings, bridges, highways, dams and other structures and equipment. They make, put up, hoist, install, repair and service structural ironwork, precast concrete, concrete reinforcing materials, curtain walls, ornamental iron and other metals used in construction.  "
7237	Welders and related machine operators	"These workers operate welding equipment to weld ferrous and non-ferrous metals. A welder can be either an artisan or a precision production worker. This group also includes machine operators who operate previously set up production welding, brazing and soldering equipment.  "
7241	Electricians (except industrial and power system)	"Electricians perform a variety of tasks on the electrical systems of buildings and other structures. Their responsibilities range from layout and planning of wiring to installation, troubleshooting and repair of circuits and electrical devices."
7242	Industrial electricians	"Industrial electricians inspect, install, maintain, test, troubleshoot and repair industrial electrical equipment and associated electrical and electronic controls.
"
7243	Power system electricians	"Power system electricians install, maintain, test and repair electrical power generation, transmission and distribution system equipment and apparatus."
7244	Electrical power line and cable workers	"Electrical power line and cable workers construct, maintain and repair overhead and underground electrical power transmission and distribution systems."
7245	Telecommunications line and cable workers	"Telecommunications line and cable workers install, repair and maintain telecommunication lines and cables."
7246	Telecommunications installation and repair workers	"People in this occupation install, test, maintain and repair telephones, telephone switching equipment and telecommunications equipment related to transmission and processing of voice, video signals and other data over a variety of media including fibre optics, microwave, radio and satellite."
7247	Cable television service and maintenance technicians	"People in this occupation install, maintain and repair cable and satellite television, its transmission and distribution systems and associated hardware, internet signal and associated equipment in homes and commercial buildings."
7251	Plumbers	"Plumbers install, repair and maintain pipes, fixtures and other plumbing equipment used for water distribution and waste water disposal in residential, commercial and industrial building."
7252	"Steamfitters, pipefitters and sprinkler system installers"	"Steamfitters and pipefitters design, assemble, install, maintain, troubleshoot and repair pipes carrying water, steam, chemicals and fuel in heating, cooling, lubricating and other process piping systems. Sprinkler system installers design, assemble, install, maintain and repair water, foam, carbon dioxide and dry chemical sprinkler systems in buildings for fire protection purposes."
7253	Gas fitters	"Gas fitters install, inspect, repair and maintain gas lines and gas equipment such as meters, regulators, heating units and appliances in residential, commercial and industrial establishments."
7271	Carpenters	"Carpenters construct, erect, install, maintain and repair structures and components of structures made of wood, wood substitutes, lightweight steel and other materials."
7272	Cabinetmakers	"Cabinetmakers use a variety of woods and laminates to construct and repair wooden cabinets, furniture, fixtures and related products.
"
7281	Bricklayers	"Bricklayers lay bricks, concrete blocks, stone and other similar materials to construct or repair walls, arches, chimneys, fireplaces and other structures in accordance with blueprints and specifications."
7282	Concrete finishers	"Concrete finishers smooth and finish freshly poured concrete, apply curing or surface treatments. They install, maintain and restore various masonry structures such as foundations, floors, ceilings, sidewalks, roads, patios and high-rise buildings."
7283	Tilesetters	"Tilesetters cover interior and exterior walls, floors and ceilings with ceramic, marble and quarry tile, mosaics or terrazzo."
7284	"Plasterers, drywall installers and finishers and lathers"	"Plasterers apply finish and maintain and restore plaster or similar materials on interior and exterior walls, ceilings and building partitions to produce plain or decorative surfaces. Drywall installers and finishers install and finish drywall sheets and various types of ceiling systems. Lathers install support framework for ceiling systems, interior and exterior walls and building partitions."
7291	Roofers and shinglers	"Roofers and shingles install, repair and replace flat roofs and shingles, shakes and other roofing tiles on residential, industrial and commercial buildings."
7292	Glaziers	"Glaziers cut, fit, install and replace glass in residential, commercial and industrial buildings, on exterior walls of buildings and other structures, and in furniture and other products. They are also responsible for installing metal frameworks for glass and building walls of buildings made of glass panels."
7293	Insulators	"Insulators apply insulation materials to plumbing, air-handling, heating, cooling and refrigeration systems, piping equipment and pressure vessels, and walls, floors and ceilings of buildings and other structures, to prevent or reduce the passage of heat, cold, sound or fire."
7294	Painters and decorators (except interior decorators)	"People in these occupations work for construction companies, painting contractors and building maintenance contractors."
7295	Floor covering installers	"Floor covering installers install carpet, wood, linoleum, vinyl, and other resilient floor coverings in residential, commercial, industrial, and institutional buildings."
7301	"Contractors and supervisors, mechanic trades"	"This group includes heating, refrigeration, air conditioning, millwrighting and elevator installation trade contractors who own and operate their own businesses. This group also includes supervisors employed in a wide range of establishments who supervise and coordinate the activities of workers classified in groups within the following areas: Machinery and transportation equipment mechanics (except motor vehicle), Automotive service technicians and other mechanics."
7302	"Contractors and supervisors, heavy equipment operator crews"	"This group includes excavating, grading, paving, drilling and blasting contractors who own and operate their own business. It also includes supervisors who supervise and coordinate the activities of workers classified in the following groups: Crane Operators (NOC 7371), Drillers and Blasters Surface Mining, Quarrying and Construction (NOC 7372), Heavy Equipment Operators (Except Crane) (NOC 7521), Longshore Workers (NOC 7451), Material Handlers (NOC 7452), Public Works Maintenance Equipment Operators and Related Workers (NOC 7522), Railway Yard and Track Maintenance Workers (NOC 7531), Water Well Drillers (NOC 7373), Public Works and Maintenance Labourers (NOC 7621)."
7303	"Supervisors, printing and related occupations"	"Supervisors in this group oversee and coordinate the activities of workers who produce camera work and printing plates and cylinders, process film, print text and illustrations on paper, metal and other material and bind finished print products."
7304	"Supervisors, railway transport operations"	"People in this group supervise and coordinate the activities of railway and yard locomotive engineers, railway yard workers and railway labourers."
7305	"Supervisors, motor transport and other ground transit operators"	"People in this group supervise and coordinate activities of truck drivers, bus drivers, delivery drivers, subway and other transit operators, chauffeurs and taxi and limousine drivers. It includes bus dispatchers who coordinate the activities of transit system bus drivers and subway traffic controllers who operate and monitor signal and track switch control panels."
7311	Construction millwrights and industrial mechanics	"Construction millwrights and industrial mechanics install, maintain, troubleshoot, overhaul and repair stationary industrial machinery and mechanical equipment. This group includes industrial textile machinery mechanics and repairers."
7312	Heavy-duty equipment mechanics	"Heavy-duty equipment mechanics repair, troubleshoot, adjust, overhaul and maintain mobile heavy-duty equipment used in transportation, construction, forestry, manufacturing, farming, mining, oil, gas, material handling, landscaping, land clearing and similar activities."
7313	Refrigeration and air conditioning mechanics	"Heating, refrigeration and air conditioning mechanics install, maintain, repair and overhaul residential central air conditioning systems, commercial and industrial refrigeration and air conditioning systems and combined heating, ventilation and cooling systems. Transport refrigeration mechanics are included in this group."
7314	Railway carmen/women	"Railway carmen/women inspect, troubleshoot, maintain and repair structural and mechanical components of railway freight, passenger and urban transit rail cars."
7315	Aircraft mechanics and aircraft inspectors	"People in this occupation maintain, repair, overhaul, modify and test aircraft structural and mechanical and hydraulic systems. They inspect aircraft and aircraft systems following manufacture, modification, maintenance, repair or overhaul."
7316	Machine fitters	"Machine fitters fit, assemble and otherwise build heavy industrial machinery and transportation equipment, including aircraft engines."
7318	Elevator constructors and mechanics	"Elevator constructors and mechanics assemble, install, maintain and repair freight and passenger elevators, escalators, moving walkways and other related equipment."
7321	"Automotive service technicians, truck and bus mechanics and mechanical repairers"	"Automotive service technicians, truck and bus mechanics, and mechanical repairers work on cars, buses, and light and commercial transport trucks. They inspect, diagnose, repair and service mechanical, electrical and electronic systems and parts of vehicles. Mechanical repairers do major repairs of, and replace, mechanical units on newly built motor vehicles."
7322	Motor vehicle body repairers	"People in this occupation repair and restore damaged motor vehicle body parts, and interior finishing, repaint automotive body surfaces and repair or replace automotive glass. "
7331	Oil and solid fuel heating mechanics	"Oil and solid fuel heating mechanics install and maintain oil, coal and wood heating systems in residential and commercial buildings."
7332	Appliance servicers and repairers	"Appliance servicers and repairers maintain, service and repair home and commercial appliances and help prevent unwanted breakdowns. Some employees work specifically on small appliances and others specialize in major appliances."
7333	Electrical mechanics	"People in this occupation maintain, test, rebuild and repair electric motors, transformers, switchgear and other electrical apparatus."
7334	"Motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle and other related mechanics"	"Mechanics in this group test, repair and service motorcycles, motor scooters, snowmobiles, forklifts and all-terrain vehicles."
7335	Other small engine and small equipment repairers	"Workers in this group test, repair and service small gasoline and diesel-powered equipment, such as garden tractors, outboard motors, lawn mowers and other related equipment."
7361	Railway and yard locomotive engineers	"Railway locomotive engineers operate railway locomotives to transport passengers and freight. Yard locomotive engineers operate locomotives within yards of railway, industrial or other establishments."
7362	Railway conductors and brakemen/women	Railway conductors coordinate and supervise the activities of passenger and freight train crew members. Brakemen/women check train brakes and other systems and equipment prior to train run. They also help conductors with activities en route.
7371	Crane operators	"Crane operators run cranes or draglines to lift, move and position heavy objects, such as building materials or machinery at construction or industrial sites, ports, railway yards, surface mines and similar locations."
7372	"Drillers and blasters - surface mining, quarrying and construction"	"Drillers operate mobile drilling machines to bore blast holes in open-pit mines and quarries for blasting and for building foundations at construction sites. Blasters fill blast holes with explosives, detonate explosives to dislodge coal, ore and rock or to demolish structures."
7373	Water well drillers	"People in this occupation operate a variety of mobile water well drilling rigs and equipment to drill and monitor residential, commercial and industrial water wells."
7381	Printing press operators	"Printing press operators set up and operate sheet and web-fed presses to print illustrations, designs and text on paper, plastic, sheet metal and other material."
7384	"Other trades and related occupations, n.e.c."	"This group includes tradespersons and related skilled workers, not elsewhere classified. They repair, service, install, adjust or make a variety of products."
7441	Residential and commercial installers and servicers	"People in this group install and service a wide variety of interior and exterior prefabricated products such as windows, doors, electrical appliances, water heaters, fences, play structures and septic systems at residential or commercial properties."
7442	Waterworks and gas maintenance workers	Waterworks maintenance workers maintain and repair waterworks equipment and facilities. Gas maintenance workers check and do routine maintenance and minor repairs to exterior and underground gas mains and distribution lines.
7444	Pest controllers and fumigators	"Pest controllers and fumigators inspect buildings and outside areas for pest infestation, spray chemical treatments to kill noxious and destructive insects, rodents and other pests. They also set cage traps to capture and remove animals."
7445	Other repairers and servicers	"This group includes workers, not elsewhere classified, who repair and service a wide variety of products. People in this group repair and service items such as cameras, scales, musical instruments, coin machines, vending machines, sporting goods and other miscellaneous products and equipment."
7451	Longshore workers	"Longshore workers transfer cargo from ships and other vessels, and throughout the dock area."
7452	Material handlers	"These workers handle, move, load and unload materials by hand or using a variety of material handling equipment."
7511	Transport truck drivers	"Transport truck drivers operate heavy trucks to transport goods and materials over urban, interurban, provincial and international routes. This group also includes drivers of special purpose trucks and shunters who move trailers to and from loading docks within trucking yards or lots."
7512	"Bus drivers, subway operators and other transit operators"	"People in this career drive buses, subway trains and light rail transit vehicles so that passengers can get from place to place without a car. They drive planned routes on a schedule and people buy tickets to ride on the bus, subway or light rail train."
7513	Taxi and limousine drivers and chauffeurs	"People in this occupation drive automobiles and limousines to transport passengers, visitors of businesses, government or other organizations or members of private households."
7514	Delivery and courier service drivers	"People in this occupation drive automobiles, vans and light trucks to pick up and deliver various products."
7521	Heavy equipment operators (except crane)	"Heavy equipment operators run heavy equipment used in the building and maintenance of roads, bridges, airports, gas and oil pipelines, tunnels and buildings and other structures.  They also operate heavy equipment used in surface mining and quarrying activities."
7522	Public works maintenance equipment operators and related workers	"This group includes workers who operate vehicles and equipment to maintain streets, highways and sewer systems. Some examples of work include operating garbage trucks to collect garbage and recyclable materials, clearing vegetation close to power lines and inspecting the condition of utility poles."
7531	Railway yard and track maintenance workers	"Railway yard workers regulate yard traffic, couple and uncouple trains and perform related yard activities. Railway track maintenance workers operate machines and equipment to lay, maintain and repair railway tracks."
7532	Water transport deck and engine room crew	"Water transport deck and engine room crew stand watch, operate and maintain deck equipment. They also perform other deck and bridge duties, assist ship engineer officers to operate, maintain and repair engines, machinery and auxiliary equipment aboard ships or self-propelled vessels."
7533	Boat and cable ferry operators and related occupations	"Workers in this group operate lock gates, bridges and similar equipment along canal systems, cable ferries and ferry terminals. This group includes boat operators, and owner-operators, who operate small motorboats or watercraft to transport passengers or freight."
7534	Air transport ramp attendants	"Air transport ramp attendants operate ramp-servicing vehicles and equipment, handle cargo and baggage and perform other ground support duties at airports."
7535	Other automotive mechanical installers and servicers	"Workers in this group install replacement automotive mechanical parts such as mufflers, exhaust pipes, shock absorbers, springs and radiators. They do routine maintenance service such as oil changes, lubrication and tire repairs on automobiles, trucks and heavy equipment."
7611	Construction trades helpers and labourers	"Construction trades helpers and labourers assist skilled tradespersons and perform labouring activities at construction sites, in quarries and in surface mines."
7612	Other trades helpers and labourers	"This group includes trade helpers and labourers, not elsewhere classified, who help skilled tradespersons and perform labouring activities with the installation, maintenance and repair of industrial machinery, refrigeration, heating and air conditioning equipment. They help with the maintenance and repair of transportation and heavy equipment, telecommunication and power cables, and other settings."
7621	Public works and maintenance labourers	"Public works and maintenance labourers perform a variety of labouring activities to maintain sidewalks, streets, roads and similar areas."
7622	Railway and motor transport labourers	"Railway and motor transport labourers perform a variety of tasks to help track maintenance workers and railway yard workers, or motor transport operators."
8211	"Supervisors, logging and forestry"	People in this group supervise and coordinate the activities of workers engaged in logging and silvicultural operations.
8221	"Supervisors, mining and quarrying"	Supervisors in mining and quarrying supervise and coordinate activities of workers engaged in mining operations of underground and surface mines and quarries.
8222	"Contractors and supervisors, oil and gas drilling and services"	"Contractors and supervisors in oil and gas drilling services coordinate and supervise the activities of workers engaged in drilling for oil or gas, operating service rigs or providing oil and gas services."
8231	Underground production and development miners	"Underground production and development miners drill, blast, operate mining machinery and perform related duties to extract coal and ore in underground mines and construct mine tunnels, passageways and shafts to facilitate mining operations."
8232	"Oil and gas well drillers, servicers, testers and related workers"	Oil and gas well drillers and service rig operators control the operation of drilling and hoisting equipment on drilling and service rigs.
8241	Logging machinery operators	"People in this occupation operate cable yarding systems, mechanical harvesters and forwarders and mechanical tree processors and loaders to fall, yard and process trees at logging sites."
8252	"Agricultural service contractors, farm supervisors and specialized livestock workers"	"Agricultural service contractors, who own and operate their own businesses, provide agricultural services such as livestock and poultry breeding, soil preparation, crop planting, crop spraying, cultivating or harvesting. Farm supervisors supervise the work of general farm workers and harvesting labourers. Specialized livestock workers carry out feeding, health and breeding programs on dairy, beef, sheep, poultry, hog and other livestock farms."
8255	"Contractors and supervisors, landscaping, grounds maintenance and horticulture services"	"This group includes landscaping and grounds maintenance contractors, who own and operate their own businesses. This group also includes supervisors who supervise and co-ordinate the activities of workers in the following groups: Nursery and Greenhouse Workers (8432), Landscaping and Grounds Maintenance Labourers (8612)."
8261	Fishing masters and officers	Fishing masters and officers manage and operate saltwater and freshwater fishing vessels greater than 100 gross tonnes to catch fish and other marine life.
8262	Fishermen/women	Fishing vessel skippers and fishermen/women operate fishing vessels to catch fish and other marine life.
8411	Underground mine service and support workers	"Underground mine service and support workers perform a range of duties related to the operation of orepasses, chutes and conveyor systems."
8412	Oil and gas well drilling and related workers and services operators	"Oil and gas well drilling workers are intermediate members of the rig crews that operate drilling and service rig machinery.
"
8421	Chain saw and skidder operators	"Chainsaw and skidder operators work together to prepare sites for logging and harvesting. These workers operate chain saws to fell, delimb and buck trees, and operate skidders to move or yard the felled trees from the logging site to the landing area for processing and transportation. "
8422	Silviculture and forestry workers	"Silviculture and forestry workers perform a variety of duties related to reforestation and to the management, improvement and conservation of forests. This occupational group includes forest firefighters."
8431	General farm workers	"This group includes operators of farm machinery. People in this occupation plant, cultivate and harvest crops. They raise livestock and poultry. They also maintain and repair farm equipment and buildings."
8432	Nursery and greenhouse workers	"Nursery and greenhouse workers plant, cultivate and harvest trees, shrubs, flowers, greenhouse vegetables and plants."
8441	Fishing vessel deckhands	Fishing vessel deckhands perform a variety of manual tasks on commercial fishing trips and maintain fishing boats.
8442	Trappers and hunters	People in this occupation trap and hunt wild animals for pelts or live sale.
8611	Harvesting labourers	"Harvesting labourers help other farm workers to harvest, sort and pack crops."
8612	Landscaping and grounds maintenance labourers	Landscaping and grounds maintenance labourers assist with constructing landscapes and related structures.
8613	Aquaculture and marine harvest labourers	"This group includes aquaculture support workers, marine plant gatherers, shellfish diggers and other labourers in aquaculture and fishing."
8614	Mine labourers	"Mine labourers carry out a variety of labouring duties to assist in the extraction of coal, metal, mineral deposits and ore in support of underground and surface mining."
8615	"Oil and gas drilling, servicing and related labourers"	Workers carry out a variety of labouring duties and operate equipment to assist in the drilling and servicing of oil and gas wells. This group also includes labourers who assist in geophysical prospecting for oil and gas.
8616	Logging and forestry labourers	"Logging and forestry labourers attach choker cables to logs, plant trees, clear brush, spray chemicals, clean up landing areas and assist other workers in woodlands operations."
9211	"Supervisors, mineral and metal processing"	"People in this occupation supervise and co-ordinate the activities of workers in the following groups: Central control and process operators, mineral and metal processing (NOC 9231), Labourers in mineral and metal processing (NOC 9611)."
9212	"Supervisors, petroleum, gas and chemical processing and utilities"	"Supervisors in this group supervise and coordinate the activities of workers in the following groups: Central control and process operators, petroleum, gas and chemical processing (NOC 9232), Chemical plant machine operators (NOC 9421), Labourers in chemical products processing and utilities (NOC 9613), Water and waste treatment plant operators (NOC 9243), Power engineers and power systems operators (NOC 9241)."
9213	"Supervisors, food, beverage and associated products processing"	"People in this group supervise and coordinate the activities of workers who operate processing machines, and package or grade food, beverage and associated products."
9214	"Supervisors, plastic and rubber products manufacturing"	"People in this group supervise and coordinate the activities of workers who operate processing machines, and who fabricate, assemble and inspect rubber or plastic products."
9215	"Supervisors, forest products processing"	"Supervisors in this group supervise and co-ordinate the activities of workers in the following groups: Pulping, papermaking and coating control operators (NOC 9235), Labourers in wood, pulp and paper processing (NOC 9614)."
9217	"Supervisors, textile, fabric, fur and leather products processing and manufacturing"	"Supervisors in this group supervise and co-ordinate the activities of workers engaged in textile, fabric, fur and leather products processing and manufacturing."
9221	"Supervisors, motor vehicle assembling"	People in this group supervise and coordinate the activities of workers in motor vehicle production departments.
9222	"Supervisors, electronics manufacturing"	"People in this group supervise and coordinate the activities of workers who assemble, fabricate, test, repair and inspect electronic parts, components and systems."
9223	"Supervisors, electrical products manufacturing"	"People in this group supervise and coordinate the activities of workers who assemble, make and inspect electrical components, appliances, motors and industrial equipment."
9224	"Supervisors, furniture and fixtures manufacturing"	People in this group supervise and coordinate the activities of workers who manufacture furniture and fixtures made of wood or other materials.
9226	"Supervisors, other mechanical and metal products manufacturing"	"People in this group supervise and coordinate the activities of workers who make, assemble and inspect mechanical and metal products, such as aircraft and aircraft parts, heavy trucks, buses, trailers, motor vehicle engines, transmissions, heating equipment, commercial refrigeration and similar metal products."
9227	"Supervisors, other products manufacturing and assembly"	"This group includes supervisors, not elsewhere classified, who supervise and coordinate the activities of workers who assemble, make and inspect a variety of products, such as jewellery, clocks and watches, millwork, sporting goods, toys and other miscellaneous products."
9231	"Central control and process operators, mineral and metal processing"	"People in this occupation operate and monitor multi-function process control machinery and equipment to control the processing of mineral ores, metals or cement."
9232	"Petroleum, gas and chemical process operators"	"Petroleum, gas and chemical process operators monitor and operate petroleum, petrochemical and chemical plants and monitor, adjust and maintain processing units and equipment in these plants. "
9235	"Pulping, papermaking and coating control operators"	"Papermaking and coating control operators run and monitor multi-function process control machinery and equipment to control the processing of paper, paper pulp and paperboard."
9241	Power engineers and power systems operators	"Power engineers operate and maintain reactors, turbines, boilers, generators, stationary engines and auxiliary equipment to generate electrical power and to provide heat, light, refrigeration and other utility services for commercial, industrial and institutional buildings and other work sites. Power systems operators monitor and operate switchboards and related equipment in electrical control centres to control the distribution of electrical power in transmission networks.
"
9243	Water and waste treatment plant operators	"People in this occupation monitor and operate computerized control systems and related equipment in water filtration and treatment plants, wastewater, sewage treatment and liquid waste plants to regulate the treatment, distribution of water, disposal of sewage and wastes."
9411	"Machine operators, mineral and metal processing"	Machine operators in mineral and metal processing run single-function machines or machinery that are part of a larger production to process mineral ore and metal products.
9412	Foundry workers	"Foundry workers make foundry moulds and cores by hand or machine, cast molten metal and operate furnaces."
9413	Glass forming and finishing machine operators and glass cutters	"People in this group operate multi-function process control machinery or single function machines to melt, form, cut or finish flat glass and other glass products. They also cut flat glass of various thicknesses to specified sizes and shapes by hand."
9414	"Concrete, clay and stone forming operators"	"Workers in this group cast and finish concrete products. They operate machines to extrude, mould, press and bake clay products. They also operate machines to form, cut and finish stone products."
9415	"Inspectors and testers, mineral and metal processing"	"People in this occupation inspect, grade, sample or test raw materials and products from mineral ore and metal processing operations."
9416	Metalworking and forging machine operators	"People in this occupation operate metalworking machines which shape and form sheet or other metal into parts or products. They operate forging machines to form and shape metal into various shapes and sizes and impart desired strength, hardness or other characteristics."
9417	Machining tool operators	People in this career set up and run metal-cutting machines designed for repetitive machining work. They also etch or chemically mill metal pieces.
9418	Other metal products machine operators	"People in this occupation operate one or more automatic or multi-purpose machines to produce a variety of metal parts and products, such as wire mesh, nails, bolts and chains."
9421	Chemical plant machine operators	"Chemical plant machine operators monitor and operate units and machinery to blend, mix, process and package a wide range of specialty chemicals, pharmaceuticals, cleaning and toiletry products."
9422	Plastics processing machine operators	"Plastics processing machine operators set up and operate plastic mixing, calendering, extruding and moulding processing machines used in the manufacture of plastic parts and plastic products."
9423	Rubber processing machine operators and related workers	Workers in this group run rubber processing machinery and put together and inspect rubber products.
9431	Sawmill machine operators	"Sawmill machine operators run, monitor and control automated lumber mill equipment. They saw timber logs into rough timber; saw, trim and plane rough lumber to dressed lumber of various sizes; and saw or split shingles and shakes."
9432	Pulp mill machine operators	Pulp mill machine operators run and monitor various types of processing machinery and equipment to produce pulp.
9433	Papermaking and finishing machine operators	"Papermaking and finishing machine operators run process machinery and equipment. They help papermaking and coating control operators to produce, coat and finish paper."
9434	Other wood processing machine operators	"Machine operators in this group run and look after wood processing equipment and machines to remove bark from logs, produce wood chips, preserve and treat wood, and produce waferboards, particleboards, hardboards, insulation boards, plywood, veneers and similar wood products."
9435	Paper converting machine operators	"Paper converting machine operators run various machines that make paper products such as paper bags, containers, boxes, envelopes and similar articles."
9436	Lumber graders and other wood processing inspectors and graders	"People in this occupation inspect and grade lumber, shingles, veneer, waferboard and similar wood products to identify defects, make sure company specifications are followed and classify products according to industry standards."
9437	Woodworking machine operators	"Woodworking machine operators set up, program and operate one or more woodworking machines to make or repair wooden parts for furniture, fixtures or other wood products."
9441	"Textile fibre and yarn, hide and pelt processing machine operators and workers"	"People in this occupation run machines to prepare textile fibres; spin, wind or twist yarn or thread; and bleach, dye or finish yarn, thread, cloth or textile products. They trim, scrape, clean, tan, buff and dye animal hides, pelts or skins to produce leather stock and finished furs."
9442	"Weavers, knitters and other fabric making occupations"	"Operators in this group run machines to process yarn or thread into woven, non-woven and knitted products such as cloth, lace, carpets, rope, industrial fabric, hosiery and knitted garments or to quilt and embroider fabric."
9445	"Fabric, fur and leather cutters"	"Fabric cutters cut fabric to make parts for garments, linens and other articles. Fur cutters cut fur pelts to make parts for garments and other fur articles. Leather cutters cut leather to make parts for shoes, garments and other leather articles."
9446	Industrial sewing machine operators	"People in this occupation operate sewing machines to sew fabric, fur, leather or synthetic materials to produce or repair garments and other articles."
9447	"Inspectors and graders, textile, fabric, fur and leather products manufacturing"	"Inspectors and graders in this group inspect and grade textile, fabric, fur and leather products."
9461	"Process control and machine operators, food, beverage and associated products processing"	"People in this occupation run multi-function process control machinery or single-function machines to process and package food, beverage and associated products."
9462	"Industrial butchers and meat cutters, poultry preparers and related workers"	"Workers in this group prepare meat and poultry for further processing, for packaging or for marketing."
9463	Fish and seafood plant workers	"This group includes fish and seafood plant machine operators who set up and operate machinery to process and package fish and seafood products. It also includes fish and seafood plant cutters and cleaners who cut, trim and clean fish or seafood by hand."
9465	"Testers and graders, food, beverage and associated products processing"	"People in this occupation test or grade ingredients and finished food, beverage or associated products to make sure company standards are met."
9471	Plateless printing equipment operators	"This group includes workers who operate laser printers, computerized high speed colour copiers and other printing machines to print text, illustrations and designs on a wide variety of materials such as paper, plastic, glass, leather and metal."
9472	"Camera, platemaking and other prepress occupations"	"This group includes prepress technicians who operate various computer controlled systems to perform prepress activities. It also includes workers who operate graphic arts cameras and scanners, assemble film and negatives and prepare, engrave and etch printing plates or cylinders for various types of printing presses."
9473	Binding and finishing machine operators	"People in this occupation set up, operate or oversee the operation of specific machines, equipment or computerized units that bind and finish printed material. They perform finishing tasks in the paper, carton and packaging industries, encode and stamp plastic cards."
9474	Photographic and film processors	People in this occupation process and finish still photographic film and motion picture film.
9521	Aircraft assemblers and aircraft assembly inspectors	"People in this occupation put together, fit and install pre-made parts to manufacture fixed wing or rotary wing aircraft or aircraft components. They also examine aircraft components to ensure they meet engineering specifications."
9522	"Motor vehicle assemblers, inspectors and testers"	"People in this occupation assemble and install pre-made motor vehicle parts and components to form components and finished motor vehicles. They inspect and test parts, components, accessories and finished products to ensure proper performance and quality standards."
9523	"Electronics assemblers, fabricators, inspectors and testers"	"People in this occupation assemble and construct electronic equipment, parts and components. They inspect and test electronic parts and components to ensure they meet certain standards."
9524	"Assemblers and inspectors, electrical appliance, apparatus and equipment manufacturing"	"People in this occupation assemble, build, fit, wire and inspect heavy-duty industrial electrical equipment for electrical appliance and electrical equipment manufacturing companies."
9525	"Assemblers, fabricators and inspectors, industrial electrical motors and transformers"	"People in this occupation assemble, build, fit, wire and inspect heavy-duty industrial electrical equipment for manufacturers of industrial electric motors, transformers, control equipment, transit vehicles and other heavy electrical equipment."
9526	Mechanical assemblers and inspectors	"People in this occupation assemble a wide variety of mechanical products, such as trucks, buses, snowmobiles, garden tractors, automotive engines, transmissions, outboard motors, gearboxes, hydraulic pumps and sewing machines. They check and inspect parts and finished products to ensure quality. "
9527	"Machine operators and inspectors, electrical apparatus manufacturing"	"People in this occupation run machinery or equipment to make complete products or parts for use in the assembly of electrical appliances and equipment, and electrical devices, such as batteries, fuses and plugs. They examine and test completed parts and production items."
9531	Boat assemblers and inspectors	"People in this occupation assemble wooden, fibreglass and metal boats, such as sailboats, motorboats, canoes and cabin cruisers. They check assembled boats to ensure product quality.
"
9532	Furniture and fixture assemblers and inspectors	"People in this occupation assemble parts to form furniture and fixtures, examine products to ensure product quality.
"
9533	Other wood products assemblers and inspectors	"People in this occupation assemble a variety of wood products and millwork, such as window sashes and doors. They inspect wood products to ensure product quality."
9534	Furniture finishers and refinishers	"People in this occupation finish new wood or metal furniture to a certain colour and finish. They refinish repaired, used or old furniture."
9535	"Plastic products assemblers, finishers and inspectors"	"People in this occupation assemble, finish and inspect plastic parts and finished products."
9536	"Industrial painters, coaters and metal finishing process operators"	"Painters and coaters in this group tend and operate machines or use brushes and spray equipment to apply paint, enamel, lacquer or other non-metallic protective and decorative coatings to various products. Metal finishing process operators operate machines or equipment to deposit metallized substances on workpieces and surfaces to provide decorative, protective and restorative coatings."
9537	"Other products assemblers, finishers and inspectors"	"People in this group assemble, finish and inspect components or products of various materials, such as jewellery, silverware, buttons, pencils, non-prescription lenses, brushes, clocks and watches, musical instruments, sporting goods, toys and other miscellaneous products."
9611	Labourers in mineral and metal processing	"Labourers in this group perform material handling, clean up, packaging and other elemental activities related to mineral ore and metal processing."
9612	Labourers in metal fabrication	"Labourers in metal fabrication remove excess metal and unwanted materials from metal parts, castings and other metal products. They also perform other labouring activities."
9613	Labourers in chemical products processing and utilities	"Labourers in chemical products processing and utilities carry out a variety of material handling, cleaning and routine general labouring activities."
9614	"Labourers in wood, pulp and paper processing"	"Labourers in wood, pulp and paper processing carry out a variety of general labouring and routine wood processing activities. They also help pulp mill and papermaking machine operators."
9615	Labourers in rubber and plastic products manufacturing	"Labourers in rubber and plastic products manufacturing help machine operators, transport materials and perform similar tasks."
9616	Labourers in textile processing	"Labourers in textile processing perform a variety of manual duties to help process fibres into yarn or thread, or to help with weaving, knitting, bleaching, dyeing or finishing textile fabrics or other textile products."
9617	"Labourers in food, beverage and associated products processing"	"Labourers in food and beverage processing do packaging, material handling, clean up and other basic activities involved in processing food, beverage and related products."
9618	Labourers in fish and seafood processing	"Labourers in this group do clean-up, packaging, material handling and other basic activities related to fish and seafood processing."
9619	"Other labourers in processing, manufacturing and utilities"	"This group includes labourers, not elsewhere classified, who do material handling, cleanup, packaging and other basic activities in processing, manufacturing and utilities."
		
